---
layout: post
title:  ".NET developers and other echosystem"
date:   2017-01-10 13:55:31 +0200
categories: .net 
---

.NET guys used to be enclosed within Windows and Visual Studio. Anything beyond that is considered evil. Linux, ruby, python? Does Visual Studio support it? Or at least is there any VS extension available? No? OK thank you then we won't use that. Even using console is something inatural. Why one should use console in 21st century when you have all those rich GUIs on Windows? 
But such closed vision just limits your possibilities. You intentionally reject really nice stuff built on other platforms. And in reality it is not that complicated. 
Let's assume you are a developer and want to start blogging about some smart things that usually fill up you head. You could go to Medium or Blogger or Wordpress but that is obviously not the path the real developer should take. Much-much cooler  would be having your blog on Github. And of course it should be generated by static site generators. Natural choice is [https://jekyllrb.com/](JJekyll) because it is already supported by github. However when you come to installation instructions, instead of old good msi file you'll find that:

{% highlight ruby %}
def test; do :hello
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight ruby %} 
gem install jekyll bundler
{% endhighlight %}

Oh, seems like you need to install something! It’s a Ruby. And "installing Ruby on Windows" suggests downloading and running msi. Endless clicking "Yes", "Next", "Accept" 

Of course, rich GUI can become a nightmare when it comes to installing stuff. 




C:\Users\admin\work\skalinets.github.io [new-blog]> gem install jekyll bundler
ERROR:  Could not find a valid gem 'jekyll' (>= 0), here is why:
          Unable to download data from https://rubygems.org/ - SSL_connect returned=1 errno=0 state=SSLv3 read server certificate B: certificate verify failed (https://api.rubygems.org/specs.4.8.gz)
ERROR:  Could not find a valid gem 'bundler' (>= 0), here is why:
          Unable to download data from https://rubygems.org/ - SSL_connect returned=1 errno=0 state=SSLv3 read server certificate B: certificate verify failed (https://api.rubygems.org/specs.4.8.gz)




